# mathrandomcrack

Cracking JavaScript V8 `Math.random()` and xs128 from arbitrary bit leaks.

This is largely inspired by https://imp.ress.me/blog/2023-04-17/plaidctf-2023#fastrology.

*Disclaimer: This tool is made for educational purposes only. Please don't use it to break into stuff.*

## What is this?

This tool can be used to recover the internal state of the V8 implementation of `Math.random()` knowing enough bits of randomly generated values. The values don't have to be successive and the position of the known bits can vary.

You can use the CLI to recover all the possibles internal states of `Math.random()` in one of the following situations:

- You know more than 4 values generated by `Math.random()`.
- You know *enough* integer values generated by `Math.floor(Math.random() * k + b)`. The larger k, the less values you need.
- You know *enough* approximation of values generated by `Math.random()`, meaning you know bounds for each value and therefore know a few bits of each value. The better the bounds, the less values you need.

After the internal state is recovered, this tool is also able to predict all the next and previous returned values of `Math.random()`.

## How do I protect my applications against this?

Never use `Math.random()` for anything related to security. If someone recovering randomly generated values is bad for your application, use the cryptographically secure [Crypto.getRandomValues()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Crypto/getRandomValues) method instead.

## I just want to run it

You should have Python3 and [Sage](https://doc.sagemath.org/html/en/installation/index.html) installed.

Example usages:

```console
$ # Generate the 10 next values from known consecutive outputs of Math.random()
$ python3 -m mathrandomcrack --method doubles --next 10 ./samples/doubles.txt
Found a possible Math.random internal state
Predicted next 10 values: [0.5597931536361638, 0.39832831643974864, 0.0940979656897567, 0.3892245433709369, 0.4181995469805899, 0.8956732665570508, 0.48855506783775837, 0.2101572368259732, 0.08530537646511771, 0.29348914847700214]

$ # Generate the 5 previous and 5 next integers from known consecutive values of Math.floor(Math.random() * 36)
$ python3 -m mathrandomcrack --method scaled --next 5 --previous 5 --factor 36 --output-fmt scaled ./samples/scaled_values.txt
Found a possible Math.random internal state
Predicted previous 5 values: [21, 1, 22, 4, 5]
Predicted next 5 values: [20, 29, 1, 22, 20]
```

The `samples` directory contains example files for various use cases. There should be one leaked value of `Math.random()` per line and it is possible to use an empty line to represent an unknown output of `Math.random()`.

For more information about the CLI, you can run `python3 -m mathrandomcrack --help`.

## I have a more complex use case

If you manage to leak enough bits (> 120) from multiple `Math.random()` outputs, you can directly use the `recover_state_from_math_random_known_bits` function in `mathrandomcrack.py` to recover the initial internal state of `Math.random()`.

You can also try to use `recover_seed_from_known_bits` in `xs128crack.py` if you just want the XorShift128 state and don't care about `Math.random()` stuff.

## How does it work?

`Math.random()` is defined as a function that returns pseudo-random numbers between 0 and 1 and does not provide cryptographically secure random numbers. Under the hood, in V8 (the JavaScript engine used by Chrome and NodeJS), random numbers are generated using the fast, reversible, seed-based, deterministic PRNG called [XorShift128](https://github.com/v8/v8/blob/12.5.66/src/base/utils/random-number-generator.h#L119).

### Cracking XorShift128 initial state

XorShift128 is a simple PRNG with a 128-bit internal state. It uses only XOR and shift operations and the transition from a state to the next is linear. Each bit of a XorShift128 state can be expressed as a linear combination of pre-determined bits of the initial state. Knowing enough total bits from arbitrary states, the initial state can be recovered through basic linear algebra in GF(2).

Initial XorShift128 state recovery from known bits is implemented in `xs128crack.py`.

*Note: many other projects like [v8_rand_buster](https://github.com/d0nutptr/v8_rand_buster/tree/master) use symbolic execution with z3 to recover the initial state but this is not viable if your known bits are scattered over too many states.*

### Recovering Math.random() internal state

`Math.random()` doesn't directly output XorShift128 random values. It generates [a cache](https://github.com/v8/v8/blob/12.5.66/src/numbers/math-random.cc#L35) of 64 values at a time and returns them one by one in reverse order. This makes the internal state recovery a little tricky because we have to account for the initial position of the cache index for the first known state. If only a few outputs are known (< 64), there will be up to 64 possible internal states due to the unknown position of the cache index.

Internal state recovery is implemented in `mathrandomcrack.py`.

## Tests

You can run the tests to make sure everything works using [unittest](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html).

```console
$ python3 -m unittest discover -s tests
```

## References

- https://blog.securityevaluators.com/hacking-the-javascript-lottery-80cc437e3b7f - "Hacking the JavaScript Lottery" article from 2016.
- https://security.stackexchange.com/a/123554 - "Predicting Math.random() numbers?" question on StackExchange.
- https://github.com/d0nutptr/v8_rand_buster/tree/master - Another implementation to crack XorShift128 using z3.
- https://imp.ress.me/blog/2023-04-17/plaidctf-2023#fastrology - The writeups of 2023 PlaidCTF challenges by @y4n that inspired me to make this tool.
